Some updates (#6)
greenelab/iscb-diversity-manuscript: content/20.results.md

### Assessing Gender Diversity of Authors and Honorees

Although Bioinformatics was established in 1998 and BMC Bioinformatics in 2000, the metadata for these journal papers before 2002 only have initials for first and/or middle author names.
Therefore, without first and middle names, we do not have author gender predictions before this year.

> There is a slow increasing trend of the proportion of female authors over the years, arriving at just over 20% on average in 2019 (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}A).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a slow increase of the proportion of predicted female authors, arriving at just over 20% on average in 2019 (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}A).
```

> Analyzing each journal individually, we observe very similar trend across the three selected journals, but the least increase in the estimated female proportion is found in PLOS Computational Biology (Supplementary Fig S1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We observe very similar trend within each journal, but estimated female proportion has increased the least in _PLOS Computational Biology_ (Supplementary Fig S1).
```

Author: Much better, thank you!

> ISCB fellows and keynote speakers appear to be more evenly split between men and women compared to the population of authors published in computational biology and bioinformatics journals (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}B).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ISCB fellows and keynote speakers appear to be more evenly split between men and women compared to the population of authors published in computational biology and bioinformatics journals (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}B); however, it has not yet reached parity.
```

> The overall increasing female proportion trend seems to be present in each honor category, especially in the group of ISCB Fellows (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}C).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The overall increasing female proportion trend seems to be present in each honor category, especially in the group of ISCB Fellows (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}C), which seems to have markedly increased after 2015.
```

> It is more difficult to make inference from the group of PSB speakers because the conference only has 1-2 keynotes each year (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}C).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PSB has only one or two keynotes per year, so its estimated proportion of female speakers varies considerably (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}C).
However, the 2020 PSB keynotes were the only set of honorees across our analysis for which nearly all the probability was ascribed to female speakers.
```
I think the second part is right from the graph. Definitely 90%. Should check this to make sure it's accurate :)

Author: By examples, did you mean years?

A small typo on 'per year', but maybe two sentences would be clearer?

PSB has only one or two keynotes per year, so its estimated proportion of female speakers varies considerably (Fig. {@fig:gender_breakdown}C).
However, the 2020 PSB keynotes were the only set of honorees across our analysis for which nearly all the probability was ascribed to female speakers.

Reviewer: I like that change! See what you think of this version (Edited the suggestion).

Reviewer: I ended up taking out the comment about all male speakers too. It seems pretty apparent from the figure and maybe it's too heavy-handed to include it here.

> [Should we include C here or put in supplement?]

Reviewer: What do you think? I think it's notable that PSB 2020 is the first major conference with all female keynotes, but PSB also has more of a track record of all male keynotes (b/c so few of them). I trust your judgement on what you think the way to go is.

Author: I think it's interesting to look at the number for each conference. I'm happy keeping it in. Your earlier comment touched on the possibility of all female/male keynotes because there are max two keynotes, but we can reiterate this fact if you think it's noteworthy!

Reviewer: Ok - let's plan to include C here!

> [Should we include C here or put in supplement?]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![Estimated proportion of gender prediction over the years of all Pubmed journal authors (A), of all ISCB fellows and keynote speakers (B) and of ISCB honorees in each honor category (C).](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/iscb-diversity/master/figs/gender_breakdown.png){#fig:gender_breakdown}

### Assessing the Racial and Ethnic Diversity of Authors and Honorees

We predicted the race and ethnicity of authors and honorees using wru, which is based on US census data.
We found that an increasing proportion of authors in computational biology and bioinformatics journals had last names associated with selecting Asian as a race/ethnicity category in the US census (Fig {@fig:racial_makeup}A).
This was primarily driven by publications in Bioinformatics and BMC Bioinformatics (Fig {@fig:racial_makeup}B, top).

> We did not observe an increasing trend at PLOS Computational Biology (Fig {@fig:racial_makeup}B, bottom).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We did not observe an increase at PLOS Computational Biology (Fig {@fig:racial_makeup}B, bottom).
```
